## A Programming Outline for 2026
**Unbelievably subjected to change**
-------------------------------------------------------------------

### Continuation of Current Projects

**Project Homebase**
- This is the project to use my old gaming PC as a linux machine to do host random services
- The current project is a google photos clone to hold photos because Google keeps yelling at me to expand my storage.
- Next steps would be to better that service and look into actually hosting it so I can access it from the internet.
- This comes with a plethora of risks and things to be aware of so I will make sure to take that slowly 

**Kotlin TUI**
- Super fun project to make a Terminal User Interface from scratch
- This and advent of code is helping me learn Kotlin
- Developed to use on my "Project Homebase" headless server
- In terms of steps going forward. I actually do not know what I want to work on. I know the README has a checklist, so I'd look there 

**evanfp582.github.com**
- The site that this is blog is on
- I want to continue to update the site as I do more projects and continue to make interactive and creative demos for projects
- I also want to flesh out the dev logs section more. I want to be able to:
  - Actually make it look good. The section on the site now looks horrendous 
  - Quickly upload devlogs written in markdown
  - Automatically update the site (should be easy, I just run 1 command) 
  - Sort by date so new ones show up on top

**PyTorch for Deep Learning Bootcamp**
- A Udemy course paid for by my job that I want to continue working on. I think I am like 20 hours through as 56 hour long course. So lots left
- Been super interesting to do and learn more about!

**Advent of Code**
- While I am sad that I did not complete 2025's advent of code in a reasonable time frame (AKA I still have not finished it), I want to continue to use it as a resource to learn languages and problem solving 


### Future Projects?

**Fridge Fast Food**
- A project I have been thinking about for some time.
- I just want a screen on my fridge (perhaps an old phone or Ipad) that displays what meals are in there like they do at fast food places. 
- Flex my skills with some mobile development as well as some more intentionality when it comes to what I cook and how it looks

**Possible Pantry**
- I am a sucker for satisfying sounding sentence structures
- This will be a simple and visually interesting to see what meals can be made based on what you have in your kitchen
- I am 90% sure this exists already, so it won't be novel, but it could be fun to make it myself
- Very similar to the cocktail site I have been trying to build for 5 years now

**Rust?!?**
- Will this be the year I learn Rust. I lean towards no. I got a lot of other stuff to occupy my time with


### Why Dev Logs?
I think it will be fun to document my thought process as I program on these projects. It will kind of be like the "Rubber Ducky Programming" principle where by spelling it out and explaining it to another audience (myself, but on the internet), it can help me get better as a programmer.

#### **Intentionality**  
This move towards dev logs is also inspired by the current phrase of big tech oligarchs (to put it nicely)
<p align="center">"Move fast and break things"</p>

A truly disguising phrase that takes all of the art, style, and love out of programming and innovation as a whole.   
A phrase that removes **intentionality** from the craft I love.

I would much rather move slowly and **intentionally** towards a goal than recklessly with no regard for the journey, **only** the destination.
Which brings me neatly to my final point  
#### **AI**
If all you care about when programming is the end result, then I guess AI is a good decision, but if you are obsessed with the process, obsessed with self improvement, and have a deep yearn for the satisfaction for problem solving and by extension CS as a whole, AI is not the end all be all.  
I will hop right off my high horse right there. I use AI. I use AI for programming much more than I'd like to. In terms of learning Software Engineering I think AI is best used as a search engine, not the judge, jury, and executioner of software. 


#### That is all
I will likely be the only one to ever read this, but I think like a diary it has its function that is outside of how others perceive it 
